README.md, before:

# go-raylib

go-raylib is a simple and easy-to-use library to enjoy videogames programming.

### Bindings

Header     | Supported          |
---------  | ------------------ |
raylib.h   | :heavy_check_mark: |
raymath.h  | :heavy_check_mark: |
ricons.h   | :heavy_check_mark: |
physac.h   | :heavy_check_mark: |

### Platforms

OS         | Supported          |
---------  | ------------------ |
Mac        | :heavy_check_mark: |
Linux      | :heavy_check_mark: |
Windows    | :heavy_check_mark: |

You can write your own cross-platform code, see

[raylib_darwin.go](https://github.com/chunqian/go-raylib/blob/master/raylib/raylib_darwin.go)

[raylib_windows.go](https://github.com/chunqian/go-raylib/blob/master/raylib/raylib_windows.go)

[raylib_linux.go](https://github.com/chunqian/go-raylib/blob/master/raylib/raylib_linux.go)

### Version

go-raylib binding [raylib](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib) C 3.5 release version

### Performance

High performance, same with the raylib C version.

### Development Tools

I use [sublime text](https://www.sublimetext.com) and customize tools.

[c-for-go](https://github.com/chunqian/c-for-go) automatic C-Go bindings generator for raylib C version.

[LSP](https://github.com/chunqian/LSP) use [mistune](https://github.com/lepture/mistune) instead [mdpopups](https://github.com/facelessuser/sublime-markdown-popups).

[language-formatter](https://github.com/chunqian/Language-Formatter) general code format tool.

[gopls](https://github.com/chunqian/golang-tools) fix go-raylib code autocomplete slow.

[Theme-Mariana](https://github.com/chunqian/Theme-Mariana) general color scheme.

Memory
------

For example

```go
multext := rl.NewMultiText([]string{"Hello World!"})
```

The method will check if memory is requested through cgo.

If it detects, panic **Cgo memory alloced, please use func AllocMultiText.**

Rewrite.

```go
multext, men := rl.AllocMultiText([]string{"Hello World!"})
multext.GC(mem)
```

Don't forget, call GC() for register, it can be automated management.

Difference
----------

There are some differences between the processing in Go and C.

In C

```c
char multiTextBoxText[256] = "Multi text box";
```

In Go

```go
multiTextBoxText := rg.NewBytes("Multi text box", 256)
```

In C

```c
const char *listViewExList[8] = { "This", "is", "a", "list view", "with", "disable", "elements", "amazing!" };
```

In Go

```go
listViewExList, mem := rg.AllocMultiText([]string{"This", "is", "a", "list view", "with", "disable", "elements", "amazing!"})
listViewExList.GC(mem)
```

In C

```c
int dropsCount = 0;
char **droppedFiles = GetDroppedFiles(&dropsCount);
const char *droppedFilePath = droppedFiles[0];
```

In Go

```go
dropsCount := int32(0)
droppedFiles := rl.GetDroppedFiles(&dropsCount)
droppedFilePath := rl.ToString(droppedFiles, 0)
```

In C

```c
Texture2D texture = LoadTexture("resources/cubicmap_atlas.png");
model.materials[0].maps[MAP_DIFFUSE].texture = texture;
```
In Go

```go
texture := rl.LoadTexture("../models/resources/cubicmap_atlas.png")
model.Materialser(0).Mapser(rl.MAP_DIFFUSE).Texture = texture
```

Usage
-----

#### Step 1: Get the go-raylib code

```bash
go get -u github.com/chunqian/go-raylib
```

#### Step 2: Write the code

```golang
package main

import (
    rl "github.com/chunqian/go-raylib/raylib"

    "runtime"
)

func init() {
    runtime.LockOSThread()
}

func main() {
    screenWidth := int32(800)
    screenHeight := int32(450)

    rl.InitWindow(screenWidth, screenHeight, "raylib [core] example - basic window")
    defer rl.CloseWindow()

    rl.SetTargetFPS(60)

    for !rl.WindowShouldClose() {

        rl.BeginDrawing()

        rl.ClearBackground(rl.RayWhite)

        rl.DrawText("Congrats! You created your first window!", 190, 200, 20, rl.LightGray)

        rl.EndDrawing()
    }
}
```

#### Step 3: Build the code

Macos Linux

```bash
export GO111MODULE="on"
export CGO_ENABLED=1
go mod init github.com/chunqian/go-raylib-example
go build
```

Windows

```bash
set GO111MODULE=on
set CGO_ENABLED=1
set GOARCH=386
go mod init github.com/chunqian/go-raylib-example
go build
```

Develop
-----

Windows

Installed `i686-w64-mingw32` `git`

Configure environment variables

Ubuntu

```bash
sudo apt-get install libasound2-dev mesa-common-dev libx11-dev libxrandr-dev libxi-dev xorg-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev
```

Examples
--------

Complete with +60 code examples!

Category   | Example                | Supported          |
---------  | ---------------------- | ------------------ |
audio      | module_playing         | :heavy_check_mark: |
audio      | multichannel_sound     | :heavy_check_mark: |
audio      | music_stream           | :heavy_check_mark: |
audio      | raw_stream             | :heavy_check_mark: |
audio      | sound_loading          | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 2d_camera              | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 2d_camera_platformer   | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 3d_camera_first_person | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 3d_camera_free         | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 3d_camera_mode         | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 3d_picking             | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | basic_window           | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | drop_files             | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | input_gestures         | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | input_keys             | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | input_mouse            | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | input_mouse_wheel      | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | input_multitouch       | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | random_values          | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | scissor                | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | storage_values         | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | vr_simulator           | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | window_letterbox       | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | world_screen           | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | animation              | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | billboard              | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | box_collisions         | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | cubicmap               | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | first_person_maze      | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | loading                | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | material_pbr           | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | mesh_generation        | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | mesh_picking           | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | orthographic_projection| :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | skybox                 | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | waving_cubes           | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | yaw_pitch_roll         | :heavy_check_mark: |
physac     | demo                   | :heavy_check_mark: |
physac     | friction               | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | postprocessing         | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | basic_lighting         | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | eratosthenes           | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | fog                    | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | julia_set              | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | model_shader           | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | palette_switch         | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | font_filters           | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | font_loading           | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | font_sdf               | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | font_spritefont        | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | format_text            | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | input_box              | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | raylib_fonts           | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | rectangle_bounds       | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | unicode                | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | writing_anim           | :heavy_check_mark: |
textures   | bunnymark              | :heavy_check_mark: |
textures   | rectangle              | :heavy_check_mark: |

License
-------

go-raylib is licensed under an unmodified zlib/libpng license, which is an OSI-certified, BSD-like license that allows static linking with closed source software. Check [LICENSE](LICENSE) for further details.

Commit message:

README.md add Require tag

README.md, after:

# go-raylib

go-raylib is a simple and easy-to-use library to enjoy videogames programming.

### Bindings

Header     | Supported          |
---------  | ------------------ |
raylib.h   | :heavy_check_mark: |
raymath.h  | :heavy_check_mark: |
physac.h   | :heavy_check_mark: |

### Platforms

OS         | Supported          |
---------  | ------------------ |
Mac        | :heavy_check_mark: |
Linux      | :heavy_check_mark: |
Windows    | :heavy_check_mark: |

### Version

go-raylib binding [raylib](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib) C 3.5 release version

### Performance

High performance, same with the raylib C version.

### Development Tools

I use [sublime text](https://www.sublimetext.com) and customize tools.

[c-for-go](https://github.com/chunqian/c-for-go) automatic C-Go bindings generator for raylib C version.

[LSP](https://github.com/chunqian/LSP) use [mistune](https://github.com/lepture/mistune) instead [mdpopups](https://github.com/facelessuser/sublime-markdown-popups).

[language-formatter](https://github.com/chunqian/Language-Formatter) general code format tool.

[gopls](https://github.com/chunqian/golang-tools) fix go-raylib code autocomplete slow.

[Theme-Mariana](https://github.com/chunqian/Theme-Mariana) general color scheme.

Memory
------

For example

```go
multext := rl.NewMultiText([]string{"Hello World!"})
```

The method will check if memory is requested through cgo.

If it detects, panic **Cgo memory alloced, please use func AllocMultiText.**

Rewrite.

```go
multext, men := rl.AllocMultiText([]string{"Hello World!"})
multext.GC(mem)
```

Don't forget, call GC() for register, it can be automated management.

Difference
----------

There are some differences between the processing in Go and C.

In C

```c
char multiTextBoxText[256] = "Multi text box";
```

In Go

```go
multiTextBoxText := rg.NewBytes("Multi text box", 256)
```

In C

```c
const char *listViewExList[8] = { "This", "is", "a", "list view", "with", "disable", "elements", "amazing!" };
```

In Go

```go
listViewExList, mem := rg.AllocMultiText([]string{"This", "is", "a", "list view", "with", "disable", "elements", "amazing!"})
listViewExList.GC(mem)
```

In C

```c
int dropsCount = 0;
char **droppedFiles = GetDroppedFiles(&dropsCount);
const char *droppedFilePath = droppedFiles[0];
```

In Go

```go
dropsCount := int32(0)
droppedFiles := rl.GetDroppedFiles(&dropsCount)
droppedFilePath := rl.ToString(droppedFiles, 0)
```

In C

```c
Texture2D texture = LoadTexture("resources/cubicmap_atlas.png");
model.materials[0].maps[MAP_DIFFUSE].texture = texture;
```
In Go

```go
texture := rl.LoadTexture("../models/resources/cubicmap_atlas.png")
model.Materialser(0).Mapser(rl.MAP_DIFFUSE).Texture = texture
```

Usage
-----

#### Step 1: Get the go-raylib code

```bash
go get -u github.com/chunqian/go-raylib
```

#### Step 2: Write the code

```golang
package main

import (
    rl "github.com/chunqian/go-raylib/raylib"

    "runtime"
)

func init() {
    runtime.LockOSThread()
}

func main() {
    screenWidth := int32(800)
    screenHeight := int32(450)

    rl.InitWindow(screenWidth, screenHeight, "raylib [core] example - basic window")
    defer rl.CloseWindow()

    rl.SetTargetFPS(60)

    for !rl.WindowShouldClose() {

        rl.BeginDrawing()

        rl.ClearBackground(rl.RayWhite)

        rl.DrawText("Congrats! You created your first window!", 190, 200, 20, rl.LightGray)

        rl.EndDrawing()
    }
}
```

#### Step 3: Build the code

Macos Linux

```bash
export GO111MODULE="on"
export CGO_ENABLED=1
go mod init github.com/chunqian/go-raylib-example
go build
```

Windows

```bash
set GO111MODULE=on
set CGO_ENABLED=1
set GOARCH=386
go mod init github.com/chunqian/go-raylib-example
go build
```

Require
-----

MacOS

On MacOS you need Xcode or Command Line Tools for Xcode.

Windows

On Windows you need C compiler, like [Mingw-w64](https://mingw-w64.org) or [TDM-GCC](http://tdm-gcc.tdragon.net/).
You can also build binary in [MSYS2](https://msys2.github.io/) shell.

Ubuntu

```bash
sudo apt-get install libasound2-dev mesa-common-dev libx11-dev libxrandr-dev libxi-dev xorg-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev
```

Examples
--------

Complete with +50 code examples!

Category   | Example                | Supported          |
---------  | ---------------------- | ------------------ |
audio      | module_playing         | :heavy_check_mark: |
audio      | multichannel_sound     | :heavy_check_mark: |
audio      | music_stream           | :heavy_check_mark: |
audio      | raw_stream             | :heavy_check_mark: |
audio      | sound_loading          | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 2d_camera              | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 2d_camera_platformer   | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 3d_camera_first_person | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 3d_camera_free         | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 3d_camera_mode         | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | 3d_picking             | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | basic_window           | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | drop_files             | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | input_gestures         | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | input_keys             | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | input_mouse            | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | input_mouse_wheel      | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | input_multitouch       | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | random_values          | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | scissor                | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | storage_values         | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | vr_simulator           | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | window_letterbox       | :heavy_check_mark: |
core       | world_screen           | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | animation              | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | billboard              | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | box_collisions         | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | cubicmap               | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | first_person_maze      | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | loading                | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | material_pbr           | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | mesh_generation        | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | mesh_picking           | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | orthographic_projection| :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | skybox                 | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | waving_cubes           | :heavy_check_mark: |
models     | yaw_pitch_roll         | :heavy_check_mark: |
physac     | demo                   | :heavy_check_mark: |
physac     | friction               | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | postprocessing         | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | basic_lighting         | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | eratosthenes           | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | fog                    | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | julia_set              | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | model_shader           | :heavy_check_mark: |
shaders    | palette_switch         | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | font_filters           | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | font_loading           | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | font_sdf               | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | font_spritefont        | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | format_text            | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | input_box              | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | raylib_fonts           | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | rectangle_bounds       | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | unicode                | :heavy_check_mark: |
text       | writing_anim           | :heavy_check_mark: |
textures   | bunnymark              | :heavy_check_mark: |
textures   | rectangle              | :heavy_check_mark: |

License
-------

go-raylib is licensed under an unmodified zlib/libpng license, which is an OSI-certified, BSD-like license that allows static linking with closed source software. Check [LICENSE](LICENSE) for further details.
